Pushpendra Singh: Open. Isabella.
Pushpendra Singh: the
Pushpendra Singh: Maggastasia came, so he entered.
Pushpendra Singh: 2 people entered the smith. Cor. Entered.
Pushpendra Singh: Which link are you clicking?
Pushpendra Singh: Do you have to use the one which you have shared email.
Pushpendra Singh: The motion
Pushpendra Singh:  is why this
Pushpendra Singh: academy.
Pushpendra Singh: I'm just saying
Pushpendra Singh: it's good doubling.
Pushpendra Singh: Hi, there.
Pushpendra Singh: okay.
Pushpendra Singh: don't worry.
Pushpendra Singh: Umhm. Okay.
sheriff.
Pushpendra Singh: This one was another time.
Pushpendra Singh: Okay, we go ahead and open up the meeting. So videos, right now.
Pushpendra Singh: my landscape Group Avenue.
Pushpendra Singh: Not for you. And
who offered.
Pushpendra Singh: Yeah.
Pushpendra Singh: there are some other.
Pushpendra Singh: And in a preetically entered waiting room.
Pushpendra Singh: So which one did you try? Stra? Enter waiting room. Okay?
Pushpendra Singh: Hmm.
right. And this is
Pushpendra Singh: it? Says, sign integer, yeah.
Pushpendra Singh: Yes.
Pushpendra Singh: Finishes.
Pushpendra Singh: I think it's
Pushpendra Singh:  seeing, so sorry
Pushpendra Singh: Kippy, me.
Anupriya Tuli: no stink
Anupriya Tuli: access. You can give you posting access, Hello, Hello.
Anupriya Tuli: Hello! And Johnny, can you hear me?
Indrani Medhi Thies: Yes, yes, I can. Earlier. There was an echo. But now it's not there. Yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: okay, we're just trying the setup. Yeah, yeah, that's great. That's great. Yeah. How's it working? Thank you.
Anupriya Tuli: And I make myself a goes from here.
Indrani Medhi Thies: Hi, Neha!
Anupriya Tuli: I recognize her voice.
Anupriya Tuli: Who's the host, which means, No.
Anupriya Tuli: yeah, I'll do that.
Anupriya Tuli: Well, I'll do it
Anupriya Tuli: not finished much.
Anupriya Tuli:  Maybe it depends on the volunteer
Anupriya Tuli: look for bush painter, I'm just getting all. Where are you? Where is your? I'll just. I'll just shift it. Because.
Anupriya Tuli: can you see me now? Oh, you can see your camera.
Anupriya Tuli: That's cool.
Anupriya Tuli: Yeah, I can't see myself.
Anupriya Tuli: I have got a very
Anupriya Tuli: where I can update.
Anupriya Tuli: But
Anupriya Tuli: we did set up a extension called.
Anupriya Tuli: Let's
Anupriya Tuli: no.
Yes.
Anupriya Tuli: Did you talk with him? Rami? Okay.
Indrani Medhi Thies: I'm going to step away for a bit and join. I mean, I'll be online.
Indrani Medhi Thies: Yeah, I'll come back at 7, 30. Okay.
Anupriya Tuli: it starts officially at 7, 30, right? Yeah, I'm just stepping away from my computer. I'm logged in. And also, yeah, see, you soon see, you see you? Yeah. Bye.
Anupriya Tuli: Hello, Rob!
Rob Comber: Hi! How are you?
Anupriya Tuli: I'm great. How are you?
I'm good.
Rob Comber: So I came in, and my PC. Crashed so.
Anupriya Tuli: oh, so sorry.
Anupriya Tuli: So are you able to hear me? And yes, I haven't shared my screen yet. But yeah.
Rob Comber: and that you know on me
Anupriya Tuli: get going. But II can hear you just fine. You can hear me. Okay. no. We can't actually.
Anupriya Tuli: can we in increase and increase the volume yeah, we'll try anything
Anupriya Tuli:  okay.
Anupriya Tuli: that was good.
Anupriya Tuli: Gerald, can you say something?
Anupriya Tuli: Yes. Can you hear me, better. Now.
okay.
Anupriya Tuli: we'll start in couple of minutes, we are waiting for Anisha and couple of more people to join in. Okay.
Anupriya Tuli: Hi, Anisha.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): Hello!
Anupriya Tuli: How are you? I'm good. Thank you. We have a slight panic here.
Aneesha Singh (she/her):  Can you hear me?
Aneesha Singh (she/her): We lost power in our building, and then it's been evacuated. So I've not found another office. Hopefully, they're not gonna kick me out of here.
Anupriya Tuli: I'm sorry to hear this.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): Oh, no, please don't worry. I think it's all okay. It's just it's some power bank issue somewhere, and they're being careful. but yeah, I was worried about getting her in time, and I think I've got different time. So I'm really happy. How are you can be just before the defense.
Anupriya Tuli: just settling into settling to enjoy it, I guess.
Anupriya Tuli: Yes, yes, Hi, I'm here. Yes.
Anupriya Tuli: alright. So
Anupriya Tuli: let me.
Anupriya Tuli: Oh, Hi, everyone! So I'm brush Pindra and Nihai is also here. We are the advisors, Priya, and we welcome you to her defense
Anupriya Tuli: typically in the insurance presents for about 40 min.
Anupriya Tuli: If any clarifications are needed, then we ask during the presentation. Otherwise we'd like the presentation complete.
Anupriya Tuli: And then they the. There are also some other people there, students and other faculty members. So anybody can ask the question at the end
Anupriya Tuli: once, and examiners can also ask the question at the end in public. And if examiners further want to examine, then there could also be a private session after that.
Anupriya Tuli: and then, basically, everybody leaves, including the student and on the examers and advisors discuss the final outcome. So that's the format. And with that we will now
Anupriya Tuli: start the defense. Yeah, do you want to. Yeah. So so we have
Anupriya Tuli: a tradition in our lab which we started recently. But I wanted to just quickly share a little bit of the
Anupriya Tuli: of a snapshot of Hanukreya's easy journey. So let me see if I can share my screen
Anupriya Tuli: oops
Anupriya Tuli: 1 s.
Anupriya Tuli: and just take a minute.
Anupriya Tuli: Who
Anupriya Tuli: can you see?
Anupriya Tuli: No? Right?
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, cool cause we see a different screen here. But yeah. So I just put together some photos through the years, and pictures of our lab and different conferences, and such just to kind of remind myself of the the fabulous
Anupriya Tuli: journey. It has been so thank you, Andubria for adding so much joy to our lives. And I know we keep joking about wanting you out. But I know that we're both gonna miss you.
Anupriya Tuli: okay, now, can I? How do I? Okay? So you know, we started out early this is pre pandemic. When we were doing Csew, and and Ictv in India, where Andrea was the Sv. Co. Chair, and we needed a a lot of service
Anupriya Tuli: and this is with the summer school that we did with triple id deli and also into. And then, when you were in Atlanta visiting us back in 2,019 again, just before the pandemic hit and all of the field work that you did with make a card.
Anupriya Tuli: you know which we had hopes of continuing, and then that this was in 2020 January
Anupriya Tuli: some more photos just around the time when we were getting in and then getting out of the pandemic
Anupriya Tuli: more recently, last year it was really great to see Andrea kind of date charged with winter symposium that we did in Iid Bombay. And you can see here this is, when we started out with the event. But just even you know the details with regards to planning out the T-shirts and and everything, and then doing the all of the side checks
Anupriya Tuli: and then that guy in Hamburg this year. When she was presenting her final paper with us. So it's been really lovely. Thank you for being a part of our lives, and we hope that that will continue. But this is just to kind of acknowledge that you've added so much joy. It's so much
Anupriya Tuli: laughter to to all of our lives through the years. So this is from on behalf of of the attendance lab that I'm sure also the milancha. Thank you
Anupriya Tuli: the moment.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, I can take a moment to this. To come from. This is, Thank you. This was very sweet. Thank you. I'm just trying to.
Anupriya Tuli: I'll just take a woman, please. This.
Anupriya Tuli: Thank you so much that was really.
Anupriya Tuli: really sweet. I'll try to share my screen and get into the
Anupriya Tuli: yeah. I will be that we see it here, but we don't see it. I'm just sharing it. Account
Anupriya Tuli: is my screen visible? And am I audible?
Anupriya Tuli: Okay.
Anupriya Tuli: okay, hello, everyone. And thanks for joining. I'm Anuja as my advisors introduced me. I'm a Phd. Candidate in Department of Human Centre Design at triple it rally, and I'm delighted to present my dissertation research, title towards menstrual mobilities and period positive ecologies
Anupriya Tuli: just be awesome.
Anupriya Tuli: So I have structured this presentation into 3 segments. I will first present my research approach, followed by briefly revisiting all my research studies and then closing with the contributions that my research brings to the table.
Anupriya Tuli: So let's begin with the first segment.
Anupriya Tuli: Global organizations have long recognized and declared women's health wellbeing and empowerment as a critical development goal.
Anupriya Tuli: for instance, sustainable development goal. 3 places emphasis on ensuring universal access to reproductive health.
Anupriya Tuli: Simultaneously. Sdg, 5 promotes the use of information communication technology to achieve these goals. These global initiatives provide a context for my dissertation research, which lies at the intersection of women's health. Well being and empowerment, and the role of technology in achieving these objectives
Anupriya Tuli: for my dissertation for my dissertation, I have focused on the critical subdomain of menstrual health and well being. As we move forward, it is imperative to acknowledge the landscape of research. My work builds on.
Anupriya Tuli: notably in one of the initial efforts Kai Conference in 2,017 hosted a workshop to reimagine how technology intersects with women's health. Since then the researchers have explored technology based interventions across various women's health issues, including intimate care, maternal health, menstrual health. Among others.
Anupriya Tuli: when I started my research back in 2,017 the domain of menstrual health and Atci was relatively new. However, it has grown exponentially since then.
Anupriya Tuli: Studies have examined the role of technology at different stages of menstrual journey, focusing on menstrual literacy, material and civic infrastructures, menstrual tracking and increased data management.
Anupriya Tuli: it is crucial to note that while these studies have made valuable contributions, majority have primarily represented the experiences of menstruators from the mental North.
Anupriya Tuli: Through my dissertation, I extend these conversations within the fci community by presenting a case from India.
Anupriya Tuli: a context from global South, where a complex interplay between cultural practices and social and societal norms sustain acute menstrual taboos. with its vast cultural and religious diversity. India has variety of beliefs, practices, and rituals surrounding menstruation.
Anupriya Tuli: For instance, in many Southern and Eastern States the onset of menstruation, also known as Menaki, is celebrated as a coming of eighth ceremony. However, it is important to note that these celebrations carry an underlying notion of impurity and sacredness.
Anupriya Tuli: Lifestyle changes, such as seclusion, dietary control abstaining from religious activities and mandatory purification. Ritual baths are central to these celebrations.
Anupriya Tuli: Moreover, in certain Indian States. The sacredness of menstruation is deeply ingrained in the cultural fabric with dedicated temples, worship rituals, and festivals celebrating the menstrual cycle of deities
Anupriya Tuli: interestingly the sacred and impure aspect of menstruation coexist rather than contradicting each other.
Anupriya Tuli: Despite the granule with which Menaki is celebrated in some Indian States, a palpable hesitancy to openly discuss menstruation prevails, as it is evident in this particular data from National Report, published back in 2,015.
Anupriya Tuli: I want you to mind that I started my research back in 2,017. So this data was very important for motivating the work. I conducted
Anupriya Tuli: with no conversation on menstrual health. There is lack of awareness about menstrual health and hygiene practices eventually contributing to fear low self-esteem and embarrassment among menstruators. In worst case it also leads to situation where menstruators also lose their life to suicide.
Anupriya Tuli: To address these situations, government of India adopted menstrual hygiene and management framework, aligning with the global sustainable development goals. As you can see, the framework focuses on ensuring access to civic material and information infrastructure to promote menstrual health at individual family community and societal levels
Anupriya Tuli: with the landscape of global and national initiatives in the background. My dissertation anchored in the domain of fci aims to investigate
Anupriya Tuli: how technology can play a role in addressing cultural taboos and systemic barriers towards supporting menstruation's journey
Anupriya Tuli: through a series of 4 qualitative and design studies conducted among India's middle class population in Delhi. I worked with cisgender women and prominent stakeholders in their surroundings to study multiple use cases of menstrual technology presented on this slide, which I will delve into deeper. In my further slides.
Anupriya Tuli: Throughout this research I've had the privilege of collaborating with multiple, not for profit organizations and grassroots practitioners dedicated to women's health and empowerment. This choice aligns with the principles of action research which focuses on learning through action.
Anupriya Tuli: This approach not only guided the trajectory of my dissertation, but also offered a unique opportunity for me to immerse in grassroots initiatives.
Anupriya Tuli: As a foundational step I underwent menstrual educator training and actively conducted workshops with both adolescents and idols. These collaborations allowed me to reciprocate and contribute to the grassroots by sharing research, learning to shape their efforts.
Anupriya Tuli: I contributed in developing menstrual literacy, modules, structuring awareness workshops and providing evidence for policy discourses at state and national level.
Anupriya Tuli: As a part of my dissertation research. I did a series of interviews, focus groups, surveys and design workshops in total generating more than 1 63 h of transcribed and analyzed audio recorded data.
Anupriya Tuli: This extensive data was then employed alongside suitable theoretical frameworks to derive social technical recommendations which I collectively present in my thesis
Anupriya Tuli: before we move forward. It is important to acknowledge my position, and how it has shaped the data collection and analysis presented in this dissertation work
Anupriya Tuli: as a Cis woman born and raised in Delhi, India. My own experiences around menstruation have undeniably shaped the analysis presented in this work. Having seen women being marginalized repeatedly and on various counts due to lack of information or social stigma around menstruation has shaped my motivation. To conduct this research.
Anupriya Tuli: I feel strongly about facilitating open and respectful communication on this topic. It is important to recognize that my data interpretation may carry a bias influenced by strong desire to dismantle the social construction of menstrual body as deficient and in need of control
Anupriya Tuli: in embracing an emancipatory Action research approach and adopting a feminist standpoint. I'm inspired by this famous phrase attributed to Leila Watson and her co-activist from aboriginal right. Group
Anupriya Tuli: if you have come here to help me. You are wasting your time, but if you have come here because your liberation is bound up with mine, then let us work together.
Anupriya Tuli: Now I will briefly revisit my studies.
Anupriya Tuli: My first study, published in Transactions of Chi, focused on understanding menstrual health, education, dissemination practices in offline settings
Anupriya Tuli: in 2,017 my journey began with an extensive review of literature and government reports focusing on menstrual health in India
Anupriya Tuli: while existing work, emphasized the critical need for timely education and sensitization on the subject, I observed a notable data.
Anupriya Tuli: There was a dearth of work discussing the tensions and challenges surrounding communication on the crucial topic.
Anupriya Tuli: This realization motivated me to further investigate the existing dynamics around, imparting menstrual health education in schools and home settings
Anupriya Tuli: and also to unpack the potential of technology design to alleviate the challenges and tensions associated with it.
Anupriya Tuli: I conducted a comprehensive mix method inquiry which involved a content analysis of existing training and educational materials. And in depth online survey across genders, 52 semi-structured interviews and 2 focus groups. All these efforts were directed towards adults, parents, teachers, social workers and healthcare professionals.
Anupriya Tuli: The qualitative data was analyzed, using inductive thematic analysis and rest by calculating percentages and cross tabulations. I perform data triangulation to synthesize the findings which we then analyzed. Using feminist fci framework to outline socio technical recommendations.
Anupriya Tuli: My analysis revealed that menstrual taboos impact open discussion on the subject even in the school settings as evident in this particular code.
Anupriya Tuli: Girls were listening, and, as usual, boys were kind of making fun.
Anupriya Tuli: I was feeling little shy, even ha! After having a query, I did not ask them. To my teacher.
Anupriya Tuli: The topic is first introduced at the age of 13, when the average age of Menarki is 8 to 9 years, and the syllabus is confined to the physiology of menstruation.
Anupriya Tuli: Teachers frequently skip the subject to avoid uncomfortable conversations in the classroom.
Anupriya Tuli: so with the limited to no discussion at school level. Curious a dollar since turn to the family settings, where often menstruation is treated as women's only as visible. In this particular quote from a father who emphasizes that it's a mother's job to educate her daughter about this topic.
Anupriya Tuli: Here the onus falls on the mother who educate her daughter on how to use menstrual product and navigate social behaviors around menstruation, and not much more. This dynamic leaves limited space for open communication on the subject, highlighting a vital area for intervention.
Anupriya Tuli: Further, there is a prevalent notion of gender binaries and non menstruators are isolated from the discourses on the subject, because India is still a very conservative society. People do not really talk about it, especially your family or parents are never going to talk about it, especially to guys, but with friends and the Internet and some older friends. You do get to know about it
Anupriya Tuli: in context where menstruation is barely discussed, and if so, only in hushed voices. Curious adolescents turn to their peers, and media as source of information and confidence, making them more vulnerable to half-baked information.
Anupriya Tuli: So, as we see the landscape of menstrual health. Education is riddled with power, imbalances evident in the differential dissemination of information to male and female adolescents across school and home settings.
Anupriya Tuli: Thus to foster inclusivity and open conversation on menstrual health, we need to take an ecological approach where we designed for and with different stakeholders. So what does that mean? That means identifying and creating awareness about all the stakeholders who they are, how they interact with each other and accommodating their various differences and comfort levels surrounding this particular topic.
Anupriya Tuli: In essence we must orient the design of menstrual technologies to create safe spaces that enable active participation of all stakeholders while addressing taboos, stigma, and gender binaries to achieve culturally responsive design
Anupriya Tuli: in doing so. Again, it may be prudent to note that all ecological actors or all the stakeholders are not equally invested which raises a critical design tension around agency, so design should empower whom and to what extent.
Anupriya Tuli: here prioritizing the more vulnerable population is worthy choice to make.
Anupriya Tuli: So what does this mean for our context? It means that even if male user male users are challenging to engage as the first step, we might still wish to engage the female ones.
Anupriya Tuli: My second study, published in Csew. Focuses all
Anupriya Tuli: understanding the information seeking practices on subject on the same subject in online spaces.
Anupriya Tuli: We now know that individuals in a study context predominantly turn to digital spaces as their primary source of information. Given the absence of open discussion on menstruation. This observation shaved my subsequent research objective, which aimed to gain a deeper insight into how do individuals seek construct and disseminate menstrual health information in online spaces.
Anupriya Tuli: How can technology design nurture such spaces? To foster user engagement on the subject?
Anupriya Tuli: To answer these questions I conducted a case study of menstruia.
Anupriya Tuli: which is a social enterprise that provides a friendly and informative guide on Menstrual health using multiple medias, including a website, comic books, Youtube Channel, Facebook page, and all of it designed specifically for Indian audience. At the time of the study, back in 2,017 the platform had a reach to 2 50 schools, 60 Ngos and 1 50,000 goals across India. While the Facebook page had 39,000 followers.
Anupriya Tuli: I did a detailed content analysis of the question and answer forum along with informational content embedded in the comic and the website, Squid guide section.
Anupriya Tuli: Excuse me.
Anupriya Tuli: I also organize, think aloud sessions where participants were asked to read the comics, and I connected these sessions with 20 young idols across genders. Along with my student Mentee, I applied a combination of inclusive app.
Anupriya Tuli: I applied a combination of inductive and deductive thematic analysis to outline the findings. In doing so, my reflection revolved around how offerings of menstoppedia platform aligned with Feminist Tci principles, or in some cases they might align better.
Anupriya Tuli: On the whole, menstrual platform was viewed as friendly, instructional, and culturally appropriate as evident in this code. It was informative, and the way the they portrayed it using a doctor. It was very nice
Anupriya Tuli: that, being noted, some instances presented missed opportunities for advocacy. For instance, in this particular image. You can see girls laughing about a boy finding a pad and being unsure of what to do with it which sparked reflection of society with spark reflection on societal attitudes.
Anupriya Tuli: This example highlights an opportunity to address broader social issues beyond just menstrual education.
Anupriya Tuli: Menstrapia received a broad range of questions, including those about pregnancy and sexual health. As one of the question read, last month I had period 2 times. Then I took treatment from Gynaec kind of colleges this month. I got my period on sixteenth febr, but there was no proper bleeding, only 2, 3 spots in a day me and my husband had unprotected sex on twelfth Feeb.
Anupriya Tuli: Is there any chance of that that I am pregnant
Anupriya Tuli: in contrast to such questions being posted on menstopedia. In our think, think about comic reading session, what we observe that certain images like vaginal line diagram, and were perceived crude and discomforting, and that was specially by made participants.
Anupriya Tuli: This shows varied understanding of and comfort level, surrounding menstruating bodies.
Anupriya Tuli: digging deeper. A notable tension around boundaries of comfort emerged where this one size fit all use of the platform by users, risks turning away those uncomfortable with explicit questions about sexual intercourse.
Anupriya Tuli: Interestingly, many participants played the role of intermediaries, where they expressed a desire to ask questions not just for themselves, but also for others, including their partners and daughters. For example, one of the question reads, please let me know about Tms and how to deal with it.
Anupriya Tuli: Being off the other gender. We guys don't. Often we guys often tend to misunderstand our sisters or girlfriends or wife behavior at these times. Most importantly, the mood swings. Please let me know how to take care of her sister or girlfriend or wife, and she is facing this time the dose and loans for us.
Anupriya Tuli: Findings from this study aligned with the observations from my last study, reinforcing the need for taking an ecological approach to designing menstrual technologies while making a stronger case for fostering menstrual body awareness beyond just learning about it. In theory.
Anupriya Tuli: Here I argue for promoting embodied learning about menstruators, where they learn to connect with and feel comfortable in their bodies.
Anupriya Tuli: My analysis also raises a critical tension surrounding boundaries of convert and advocacy. How much should design adhere to societal norms for adoption? And how far can we push these boundaries?
Anupriya Tuli: Recognizing the slow pace of change, I propose taking a progressive approach to design by striking an appropriate balance in advocacy.
Anupriya Tuli: In my third study, published at Kai, I studied the experiences of practicing menstrual hygiene on the move in Delhi
Anupriya Tuli: from the previous studies. It is here that discrete menstruation is crucial to white stigmatization in this curt. In my study context. Access to menstrual, friendly public infrastructure enables experiencing menstruation without the fear of embarrassment. This insight motivated me to study mobility through a menstrual lens
in Delhi. The concept of sanitary pad dispensing machine is relatively new.
Anupriya Tuli: The government of India introduced pink toilets in 2,017, which includes amenities like sanitary vending machine childcare areas, incinerator and 24 7. Lady Guard
Anupriya Tuli: Google recently mapped 45,000 public toilets in India, including these ping toilets.
Anupriya Tuli: So as these facilities and tracking mechanism become more widespread. I was interested to study how menstruating individuals manage menstruation in transit practice that shape these choices and their aspirational, safe spaces for dealing with their periods, and also to what extent existing mobile technologies can cater to menstrual mobility needs
Anupriya Tuli: gathered data through 2 participatory design activities involving 35 women menstruators and
Anupriya Tuli: online survey that received 1 31 39 responses.
Anupriya Tuli: The data collection in form of audio recordings, field notes, and photographs was subjective, subjected to inductive semantic analysis. The survey responses, primarily aided in validating the observations from the activities.
Anupriya Tuli: Using the lens of storage spaces, I analyzed my findings to imagine what safe spaces might look like if they are to support menstrual mobilities.
Anupriya Tuli: In the first activity, 10 participants completed a diagram to illustrate their journey from having a surprise period, while in transit to being fully prepared.
Anupriya Tuli: collaborating with my student peni. Together we outlined insights and cross-reference them with national and international guidelines on designing menstrual, friendly public toilets
Anupriya Tuli: which resulted in 52 unique elements, such as sanitary products, water, soap, tissue paper, lady attendance medical store, and more.
Anupriya Tuli: Next I asked 25 participants to visualize and construct their aspirational public safe space for a positive period experience through sketching and using these elements identified in previous activity
Anupriya Tuli: to understand the role of crowds. Participants were asked
Anupriya Tuli: to place chess pieces in their space where black pieces represented male presence, while White represented all other company.
Anupriya Tuli: Our participants aspired first for a functional washroom fire elaborated. I am expected to carry my sanitary napkin because they will not have dispensing machines, so, finding a decent washroom with soap and water, is an audio
Anupriya Tuli: prioritizing preparedness was critical to avoid stigma.
Anupriya Tuli: and which our participants did either by predicting the upcoming cycle, or by being always prepared
Anupriya Tuli: that entails to carrying a sanitary product with them in their hand maps
Anupriya Tuli: when not carrying a menstrual product. The approaches to rely on nearby women to borrow one interestingly, while, say, spaces extended beyond washroom. A signal, a significant focus was on them.
Anupriya Tuli: but surprisingly, many participants were unaware of the toilet locator apps or support for such public toilets on Google Maps. There was an express desire for information about whether the washroom is safe or not, or has basic amenities, and I quote to end crisisness of the situation.
Anupriya Tuli: Participants also showed openness to using a mall or restaurant or rest restaurant washroom, if recommended by friends, relatives, or any other woman.
Anupriya Tuli: But if they are clean or not.
Anupriya Tuli: an intriguing observation was the nonverbal communication surrounding stains.
Anupriya Tuli: The alarm it conveyed, and how it was tacitly received and unanim unanimously decei, appreciated by everyone. See, I elaborated.
Anupriya Tuli: If somebody notices my stain, I expect them to tell me I saw a girl with the same. So I just went to her and informed her that said, you should do do this decently.
Anupriya Tuli: Menstruation employs menstruators, employs unique period vocabulary to signal their needs and communicate the situations with each other. These vocabulary is very
Anupriya Tuli: posing challenge in discussing one's or another's period
Anupriya Tuli: situations, for instance, one participant consistently used things for sanitary products. Words like tension, pressure, discomfort, and emergency commonly denoted the situation of a surprise period during transit.
Anupriya Tuli: Moreover, for most of the participants. The term safe space immediately brought washrooms to the month, to the mind
Anupriya Tuli: company and empathy matter to our participants. They aspired for a safe space where individuals across genders and age could be seen as empathetic and express as expressed by Rena.
Anupriya Tuli: It becomes a hoopla right if they see S. Team. I don't want anyone to judge me. I want everyone around me to do their jobs and not stay if they see they should be concerned at most, but not judgmental
Anupriya Tuli: being in the midst of a crowd of women, even strangers, was acceptable, as they would empathize, understand, and offer help. Conversely, in a predominantly male crowd. There was a fear of judgment, particularly if they have a period stale.
Anupriya Tuli: Using the storage spaces perspective, I imagine toilet locator apps as a potential third space supporting menstrual mobilities.
Anupriya Tuli: a space with blurred cultural and identity boundaries where users can recognize, express and address their menstrual health and hygiene needs safely, while encouraging new ways of cultural meaning making.
Anupriya Tuli: to begin with, these apps could serve as a medium to engage diverse social groups, including those who menstruate but belong to different economic background, or are differently affected by stigma or other individuals who are seen as judging or disapproving in the period empathy.
Anupriya Tuli: One possible solution could be linking these apps to existing culturally appropriate initiatives, such as menstruia.
Anupriya Tuli: Moreover, the app would extend the personal solidarity practiced by our participants into digital solidarity by allowing users to annotate and share their perspectives on a safe space with others.
Anupriya Tuli: The generated data would later serve to hold authorities accountable for the state of the washrooms.
Anupriya Tuli: to culturally situate the applications. Non-vobil cues, like emojis, could be utilized, offering a way to annotate safe spaces, while encouraging positive expressions and combat
Anupriya Tuli: stigma by providing a comfortable vocabulary.
Anupriya Tuli: In my final study, published in Kai, I revisit the design of digital menstrual trackers as capability building tools for crafting period positive futures.
Anupriya Tuli: We now know that menstruators utilize some form of menstrual tracking to an extent to ensure preparedness for unexpected periods. Interestingly, the data from the survey from a very first study revealed a limited engagement with digital menstrual trackers. In our study context.
Anupriya Tuli: these observations led me to delve deeper drawing inspiration from the critiques in nci literature that scrutinize the current digital menstrual trackers for perpetuating a sense of control over their bodies.
Anupriya Tuli: I investigate the role of these trackers in contributing to the cultural meaning, making surrounding menstruating bodies in my study context by understanding prevalent menstrual tracking practices, and how they evolve throughout the menstrual journeys, that is, from minaki to menopause practice. Affecting these choices and experiences with an aspirations of digital menstrual trackers
Anupriya Tuli: to comprehensively explored the landscape of menstrual tracking, I took a long view of menstrual journey by engaging with menstrating women's between the age of 12 and 65 years.
Anupriya Tuli: I initiated with a pilot survey, followed by an extensive survey with adolescents and adults on a larger scale.
Anupriya Tuli: Simultaneously I reviewed menstrual tracking apps to curate functional features which were later used as probes in remote interviews, offering a shared vocabulary. These features include fertility, tracking, mode, symptom, logging, parental control reminders, notification and move.
Anupriya Tuli: Next, I employed an in-house design period journal as a cultural probe to understand tracking practices among adolescents.
Anupriya Tuli: data collection included survey responses, field notes, photographs, and over 19 h of audio interviews. I analyze the qualitative data using inductive thematic analysis and rest by calculating percentages and cross tabulations.
Anupriya Tuli: The data collected through different methods was analyzed using triangulation convergence model to outline our findings which will later analyze, using the lens of central human capabilities.
Anupriya Tuli: A dollar sent Menstrada's initially perceived tracking as unimportant, but recognize it significance as they do. However, formal tracking is adopted, based on specific reasons, such as medical diagnosis, cycle, irregularity, embarrassing experience or sexual activity. Jasmine explains.
Anupriya Tuli: Except for pregnancy, I don't think there is any value, I mean, who wants, I mean, who wants to conceive or who doesn't? That is the only reason a else I don't see any logic for it.
Anupriya Tuli: It is normal, it is going to happen, and your body will alarm you definitely.
Anupriya Tuli: Across ages. The prevalent approach to tracking is informal where menstruators rely on bodily alarms that is, physiological cues and their memories. Those users
Anupriya Tuli: track, depending.
Anupriya Tuli: Those using trackers depend on them to validate the
Anupriya Tuli: their own bodily alarms accused, which they observe attempts, attempts at formal tracking often falter, due to forgetfulness. Tracking patterns persisted into menopause years with continued reliance on established methods.
Anupriya Tuli: really noting only the dates, because during menopause the nature of period becomes sporadic.
Anupriya Tuli: In our context, menstrual tracking emerges as a highly collaborative process throughout the menstrual journey shaped by multiple relationships across generations as captured in this code.
Anupriya Tuli: My model hasn't changed
Anupriya Tuli: recently, my sister told me. Her daughter started early. She was talking about Mina
Anupriya Tuli: Minati, and my mother was really upset again. She blames you gave her this and that to eat, and because of that it started early, and like what you ruined my life like this. Now, at least don't save this to her
Anupriya Tuli: relationship. Central to this process, vary in involvement over time, rotating and replacing each other with life transitions. For instance, menstrators initially rely on mothers, and later decide whether to engage partners and all mothers for needs based information and care, support
Anupriya Tuli: the decision of whom to involve when and to what extent depends on multiple factors grounded in comfort and menstrual stickbuck. Our participants has fired for this agency for their menstrual trappers.
Anupriya Tuli: In our context, menstrual tracking goes beyond mere well-being. It holds a very deep value and meaning. For, for example, it serves as a guide for period preparation helping to avoid stained stigma as captured in Priya's code.
Anupriya Tuli: She, my mother, took it on herself to track it down, and she would say, if papa gets to know, then it's wrong.
Anupriya Tuli: So I was always scared that if Mom gets to know that I stay in, she will school me. She was so cautious that Kisiko pattana chile, nobody should get to know about it.
Anupriya Tuli: Moreover, some menstruators use tracking as a source of empowerment, making informed decisions about their body and life, despite prevailing cultural stigmas, notably unmarried menstruators turn to menstrual tracking as a natural birth control technique.
Anupriya Tuli: Nasbam's capabilities approach helped me to visualize menstrual tracking as a potential site for fostering a period positive cultural shift
Anupriya Tuli: to release, to realize these period positive cultural shift
Anupriya Tuli: using technology design. First, the design needs to account for the fact that menstruation is not a one time occurrence
Anupriya Tuli: but at Indo. But it is an individual journey from Menaki to Menopause, where once association with mental tracking involves, with changing bodies and life choices across transitions throughout this journey.
Anupriya Tuli: Thus menstrual trackers, as a capability building tool called for designing to support menstrual journey instead of designing trackers for a specific transition like Minaki, fertility and menopause.
Anupriya Tuli: taking this approach, will entail designing for the subjectivity at multiple layers throughout the journey, while accounting for messy and diverse associations with menstrual tracking.
Anupriya Tuli: Thus I propose a shift towards facilitating design for the cell
Anupriya Tuli: where design should empower menstrators to first design and later tailor their trackers throughout their menstrual journey, in accordance with where they are in their menstrual journey, experiences with menstruation and the life choices they make
Anupriya Tuli: here, facilitating self designing will also offer us a new site for intervention. That is the process of designing, assembling, and tailoring itself.
Anupriya Tuli: For instance, the process of engaging the user and in designing the tracker for themselves can also be structured as a co-designing activity while preserving the agency of the user to include or exclude other stakeholders in their vicinity as co-designers of their trackers.
Anupriya Tuli: In this case the design process can facilitate conversation on the subject by serving as an ice breaker, offering vocabulary, and also an avenue for activism by creating awareness about menstrual bodies for others
Anupriya Tuli: and facilitating positive body association with this health.
Anupriya Tuli: I will now detail out the contributions I make through this research work
Anupriya Tuli: for technology to play a role in catalyzing positive cultural shifts surrounding menstruation in our study context.
Anupriya Tuli: its design should nurture third spaces to enable ecological participation that is, recognizing and creating awareness about all the stakeholders while accounting for their differences.
Anupriya Tuli: at the same time encouraging embodied learning among menstruators, by integrating physical, emotional, and experiential aspects into the learning process, to promote self awareness and positive body association and doing all this while taking a long perspective, because menstruation is a journey spanning across years from monarchy to menopause.
Anupriya Tuli: I would like to highlight that implementing these approaches involves taking an adaptive approach to accommodate subjectivity and diversity at various levels throughout the menstrual journey.
Anupriya Tuli: while navigating nav dynamic design, tensions, surrounding advocacy, agency, privacy and cultural responsiveness
Anupriya Tuli: within xci, I make empirical contributions by presenting a rich socio cultural understanding of menstruators, experiences in a global South context with acute menstrual taboos and how these are shaped by technology design. Here I identify prominent stakeholders, influence the menstrual journey within the context and proposed socio technical recommendations for designing, inclusive, just, and empowering menstrual technologies.
Anupriya Tuli: I have also shared these observations beyond academic setting to shape grassroots, initiatives and inform national policy level discussions.
Anupriya Tuli: My work has limitations.
Anupriya Tuli: I focused on Cis menstrual experiences of the relatively privileged middle class in India, highlighting that even well endured groups, face challenges in addressing menstrual health due to cultural taboos.
Anupriya Tuli: By addressing these understudy struggles. First, we can better understand and eventually address the issues faced by more vulnerable populations with deeper root of stigma and constrained resources.
Anupriya Tuli: It is crucial to acknowledge that findings may only be partially represented. PA may be partially representing the complete spectrum of menstrual practices given India's cultural diversity
Anupriya Tuli: that said this, this this citation work marks one of the initial attempts to explore technology design for fostering period. Positive cultural shift in Indian context. Learning from this work serve as a valuable starting point for approaching the design of menstrual interventions in other regions of India and within and beyond the realm of technology
Anupriya Tuli: moving forward. I'm interested in 3 areas of research
Anupriya Tuli: going forward. I'm interested in 3 areas of research.
Anupriya Tuli: We know that mothers significantly influence their child's menstrual experiences, both genetically and culturally, as we have seen across our studies.
Anupriya Tuli: however, active engagement is often missing, due to cultural taboos and a lack of period vocabulary. I plan to explore the technology mediated collective caring within these interpersonal relationships. And how can we design for sustaining engagement throughout users, menstrual journeys, pairing across years.
Anupriya Tuli: Next, with the rise of large language models, it will be interesting to investigate user interaction. Given the lack of period vocabulary in my study context. More importantly, how these interventions might reshape the landscape of cultivating menstrual literacies from a social justice perspective, and whether their design could offer avenues for cultivating and promoting positive period vocabularies.
Anupriya Tuli: Finally, for undertaking my research, traditional data collection methods were lacking in overcoming language barriers, navigating stigma and providing the necessary sensitivity for participant recruitment data collection.
Anupriya Tuli: When researching a taboo topic, the interaction between researcher and participants becomes an in an intervention in itself, making it a site of making it a site of activism.
Anupriya Tuli: I'm keen on developing methodological guidelines for researching taboo topics within. Ci, focusing on participant and researcher care.
Anupriya Tuli: Apart from my dissertation work, I have also worked on couple of projects resulting in publication that venues, including plus you, become Cscw and Kai.
Anupriya Tuli: I want to emphasize that this journey was far from being linear, and, more importantly, not solitary, but rather woven by threads of collective compassion and generosity.
Anupriya Tuli: Before I close, I would like to take a moment, or maybe 2, to thank the people who have played a significant role in shaping this journey
Anupriya Tuli: first to my advisers for their guidance, patience
Anupriya Tuli: tagging along on all my crazy ideas, and always having my bag
Anupriya Tuli: given the sensitive nature of topic we were working on, and things can go wrong drastically
Anupriya Tuli: to my reviewers. Thank you and Rani Robin, I mean Anisha, for in for your encouraging and invaluable feedback, and I have spent some time thinking about all the questions you have asked, and still have not figured out right answers to them. But yes.
Anupriya Tuli: my internal and external examiners for shaping the trajectory of this research.
Anupriya Tuli: my academic siblings spread across 2 labs, Milan's lab here in Tripoli, Delhi, and Tandem Lab for being my guiding light source of joy, inspiration
Anupriya Tuli: for being my pillar of strength, cheerleaders shoulder to cry, and importantly, for being my people in last couple of years.
Anupriya Tuli: To all my collaborators, I have learned so much from them which I cannot explain
Anupriya Tuli: my mentees, my collaborators from other projects.
Anupriya Tuli: and, most importantly, my courage is participants. The heart and soul of this thesis lies in the intimate narrative vulnerabilities and experiences shared by them. I'm also great grateful to my field partners for supporting this work team, Haya, and in particular teams, such Asahili, for giving me my first opportunity to engage in grassroots initiative, and being my second home
Anupriya Tuli: to my friends from different walks of life and their love, care and support which I have tried my best to squeeze into this tiny space, but you would need a magnifying glass to see them. I would like to give a shout out to my father, who is in the room
Anupriya Tuli: for his efforts to break away from his conservative conditioning around menstruation and adapt to feminist values his daughters brought home.
Anupriya Tuli: You have transition with me throughout these years, papa, this is not my thesis. This is ours
Anupriya Tuli: state.
Anupriya Tuli: Finally, electronics and information technology and Google research for funding this dissertation. And with this I open the tool for questions.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay. alright. So thank you, Rufia.
Anupriya Tuli: And now the floor is open for questions. If people in the room want to ask question, they can raise hand. If the people on the zoom want to ask question, please hand
Anupriya Tuli: lots of applause. And Amina says, amazing to all kind of Yeah. thank you so much, Levina.
Anupriya Tuli: And the questions.
Anupriya Tuli: yeah, so that is one aspect I'm also very interested in. So there is lot of work within Aci community which looks like the privacy aspect of intimate data collection. But then, again, those experience that representative from global, not. They have very different policies around intimate data tracking and data tracking in general. When we think about privacy in our Indian context, what
Anupriya Tuli: across my field work. I did not, explicitly, you know, studied this, but what I have realized for my for my participants or people. In this context, privacy is relevant as far as it is not creating a stigmatized identity. What I'm trying to say that it is very valuable for them that people in their vicinity predominantly. Their family should not
Anupriya Tuli: know of of how they are, you know, practicing, maybe, let's say body autonomy. Or maybe let's say I, if I give very explicit example is having sex without marriage right? So they are more concerned of that.
Anupriya Tuli: I would be interested in future to see, like how the view about sharing their data with third party applications, because that didn't occur at all in the data collection which I have done. And that is something which I feel would be interesting to probe in further, because their understanding and definition of privacy would be very different. That's my hunch. And that is one area like which would be interesting to probe further.
Anupriya Tuli: Yes. thank you.
Anupriya Tuli: Like, this administration is connected to other domains.
Anupriya Tuli: I didn't have any issues.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, yeah. So you're asking if I have understood your question correctly. You're trying to ask me that. Have I taken mental health lens and studying this mental health education? No, not explicitly, not explicitly. But I agree what you are saying, because I recently attended a menstrual Health Alliance
Anupriya Tuli: Conference in Delhi, and Mental Health and mental health was one of the emerging areas at policy level. They are trying to look at it from that perspective because it causes lot of psychological trauma. Given the misinformation or no information around
Anupriya Tuli: and in in, if if if you might have also noted in recent years, they were cases reported in news. Where adolescent administrators have lost lights to suicide cause they stained their clothes in public, and they were humiliated or embarrassed
Anupriya Tuli: system, which is like.
Anupriya Tuli: so we should not be covered. These after talks, because the question would be like, it is related to master. But the cost could be the other things also. Yes, yeah, yeah, yes, yes. So that's what we talk about, right? That it is just not the menstruation. It is the bigger ecological environment which has different
Anupriya Tuli: factors which are shaping that finances could be one like you correctly said right? Because there are. When you are a dollar. Send, then, the the financial powers of decision making power, that those are not in your hand. Right? And that's that's where the tension come across agency right? That is a critical critical question, like design should empower home. To what extent? So those are the critical tensions which we, as designers, have to navigate it.
Anupriya Tuli: based on the specific context. an implementation of providing solution to this would differ
Anupriya Tuli: different in terms of when these solutions are situated in time and also in context, it cannot be generalized. Right? Yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: yeah. So this is one, how much do you feel that your findings can be generalized to other similar topics which are within the area?
Anupriya Tuli: I mean, I understand your question, but it has different levels, right? If you look at it from just the context perspective. In the very beginning I mentioned that they are also celebratory practices around menstruation, right? And the context changes.
Anupriya Tuli: So even within India, from region to region state to state the context changes.
Anupriya Tuli: Constrained changes
Anupriya Tuli: cannot be generalized, but can offer a starting point, and then you have to work with the stakeholders right, and understand. What is it which is constraining them, or what is their definition of empowerment, or what? I'll what do they want to understand? Because, you know
Anupriya Tuli: this sense of empowerment, and how they think of being feeling empowered as a menstruator varies across from individual menstrators. Nobody can decide it for them.
Anupriya Tuli: So that's where I talk about, you know, empowering them to design for themselves across the journey rather than giving them a package solution to use them.
Anupriya Tuli: Yeah, approach, yeah. Approach. Yeah. The bigger approach, like, like taking an ecological, embodied, and long approach that is generalizable, or can be like a lot, so generalizable is a very strong word.
Anupriya Tuli: so it it it can be tailored. It can be appended, or only 2 of these approaches might apply right. But the implementation will definitely differ. That cannot be generalized. Yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: there was one more question.
Anupriya Tuli: So let's fix in one discussion.
Anupriya Tuli: We have a study of how?
Anupriya Tuli: Because most of the
Anupriya Tuli: yes, yes, yes, yes, thank you for bringing this up. Yes, I agree. Economic aspects are very important, and they contribute to shaping these experiences because it it also shapes the power to access menstrual products.
Anupriya Tuli: So it is important. I have scoped my work specifically to focus on urban Indian settings
Anupriya Tuli: among the privileged population, so my findings are representative of them, and that, too. Also, I cannot generalize, because my work is situated in Delhi.
Anupriya Tuli: To best of my knowledge, and the literature I have skimmed through outside Xci domain around the reports of state of menstruation and the practices around menstruation in India have predominantly worked in rural areas.
Anupriya Tuli: and there they have
Anupriya Tuli: accounted for economic aspect
Anupriya Tuli: because the problem in itself changes the problem. Definition changes the moment you go from urban India to rural India, for example, is this, I'll tell you so. This is something which I
Anupriya Tuli: which one of those stakeholders in one of the conferences or Indian conferences here, that they were working with some some village in Andhra Pradesh, and they went and gave a workshop like this is sanitary napkin. This is how you should use to empower those, and after the good long workshop. One of the girl came to them and said, Okay, this is all fine, but how? How will we wear it? We don't even own an underwear.
Anupriya Tuli: So the problem changes.
Anupriya Tuli: So my thesis doesn't focus there. But it is a very important problem. I spoke my work in a very privileged society, where there is no constraint of resources. The highly educated are tech. Savvy?
Anupriya Tuli: Okay?
Anupriya Tuli: There's a question online from Kushpool saying, nice talk. What in your view, is the single best practice a designer can follow before designing a menstrual education app.
Anupriya Tuli: So again, that's what I'm saying. There is. There are 3 aspects you have to take care of not single. That's the take away. Right?
Anupriya Tuli: You have to. First take a long view. You cannot. Okay. Visualize. Yeah, that technical solution, like
Anupriya Tuli: like your friend, a companion which grows as you grow.
Anupriya Tuli: so your information needs will change across your full journey. It will also be defined by the choices you make, whether you want to have a child or not, whether
Anupriya Tuli: you are sexually active or not?
Anupriya Tuli: Right? So you have to take a log view. Then, again. Then you have to take an embodied perspective where it's just not about reading that. Okay, menstruation happens for 28 days. 4 days of bleeding, etcetera. It's also about focusing on what you are feeling in your body. So that's where I say that you have to take an embodied perspective where the focus should be shifted to the sensations, emotions, and experiences
Anupriya Tuli: within the body, just not reading about them. Right? And the third is taking an ecological perspective.
Anupriya Tuli: it is very important, because, as throughout my what I have noted that there are multiple stakeholders, you have parents specifically, predominantly. Your mother who shapes how you.
Anupriya Tuli: how you connect with the topic. In the very first place, we have seen, I also have a data point where you know where mothers were supportive. Those dollars in menstruators used to look forward to menstruation as as period of rest.
Anupriya Tuli: And there are people where like this one particular quote, where III showed
Anupriya Tuli: because more about that. You know you had this. You had that. That's why your periods are early and that should not how it'd be, and that causes that strains your relationship right with your body. So we also have to take ecological aspect where we engage all the stakeholders together to have this conversation, and you know, to do all these perspectives?
Anupriya Tuli: Thank you.
Any more questions from the audience.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, then, I would request. Or, yeah, so yeah, can you specify what would be the best.
Anupriya Tuli: Please also set up your doses.
Anupriya Tuli: So so there is. Yeah, it's a resources of education.
Anupriya Tuli: So, Matt, there might be a little bit recently. So okay, so there is this menstrual health Alliance website. And they have worked over 5 years to collate data on menstrual help to research work learning from grounds, and they have collated and put it on a website. Recently, they have, designed a chat port like
Anupriya Tuli: model on Chat, Gpd, 4, which can help policy makers to better understand the context. So those are some initiators. There are also other independent initiatives. There are a lot of Ngos like, there is also books by Tarshi. Tarshi is one of the prominent Ngos. Right? They don't have digital pre presence, but they have been working in the field for last 20 years.
Anupriya Tuli: So then you also have. Well, there's a lot of reports by United Nation, and they also have lot of information in that. So there is no third of literature.
Anupriya Tuli: There is unfpf book which was already there when I started my research back in 2,017, and the title of the book is Kishore Kishorekia Westamikaki, that talks about Peabody growing up, including a menstruation, and what that the equival, like nightfall or ejaculation for opposite sex. So there's lot of literature and resource out there.
Anupriya Tuli: But it's just about accessing it. It's more about that. Yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: So I have a small and talked about.
Anupriya Tuli: you can have a conversation with them.
Anupriya Tuli: I'm more interested in the fact that the models, to best of my understanding, are trained on given set of data, right?
Anupriya Tuli: And their period vocabulary or not in the context, like, how are they going to interact? Like, I'm very interested in that prompt engineering? And how so? Tha, that's from Xiao perspective that I'm very like. I find it very interesting to see and how they are learning like, what
Anupriya Tuli: can help nurture, positive period vocabulary. How can we utilize that space right now? There is no vocabulary or a very fuzzy vocabulary, right? So that could be very interesting.
Anupriya Tuli: Yes, yeah, we can. We can talk about it offline.
Anupriya Tuli: Yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: alright. So any more questions from audience offline or online.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, so I will then request the audience to please
Anupriya Tuli: leave the room. And I would also request the online audience to also
Anupriya Tuli: maybe log out. Thank you. Thank you. Everyone for coming except my reviewers. Yeah. Review as well.
Anupriya Tuli: Thank you. Everyone for joining. Thank you so much.
Anupriya Tuli: Hmm.
Anupriya Tuli: fine. So it's now 5 of us.
Anupriya Tuli: So, examiners, please feel free to do you want me to stop sharing my screen? Or is it okay?
Anupriya Tuli: I think I can keep it.
Anupriya Tuli: So should be are we expected to ask questions.
Anupriya Tuli: So maybe I can get a started. Yeah. So
Anupriya Tuli: actually, that's that's quite impolite of me. I'm gonna wait. Anisha.
Indrani Medhi Thies: okay, okay, thank you so much. This is wonderful work and congratulations on what you've accomplished so far really enjoyed it. Thank you.
Indrani Medhi Thies: So you know I was thinking at first I let me talk about your presentation. So one thing I was curious about, you know
Indrani Medhi Thies: you talked about involving the stakeholders a number of times. Right?
Indrani Medhi Thies: I was curious. Do you have any concrete ideas on? How would you involve a more challenging stakeholders like, you know, fathers or brothers?
Indrani Medhi Thies: Because, I mean this ecological standpoint is great.
Indrani Medhi Thies: but like what are some concrete ways in which you know as a designer, like, what are your thoughts on? What are concrete steps to involve?
Indrani Medhi Thies: people who are more challenging to engage.
Anupriya Tuli: you know. Okay, so
Anupriya Tuli: there are lot of there's a lot of work actually, in within sci domain where people have looked at playfulness.
Anupriya Tuli: So there is the specific work. By Tran, was published in 2,000, ran at all, published in 2,015, where they have a design IoT based model of Utris, and they have situated this in a clinic setting. And it is focused on
Anupriya Tuli: very like young kids like 4 or 5 years old, who come to the clinic with their parents, and the model is kept there. So just to spark conversation about like what it is, how, how, what does it mean? And stuff like that? So that those are similar kind of initiatives are the ones
Anupriya Tuli: which we can draw inspiration on. But
Anupriya Tuli: here it will not be a model of uts, but maybe something else. Maybe we can look into something which is very culturally relevant.
Anupriya Tuli: Maybe we can also like one particular thing which I think we can engage while with is like these celebratory minority practices. Yeah. So that great avenue like. Unfortunately, I haven't focused on that aspect, and my participants didn't bring that up because not prevalent in my context. But I think that's a fabulous opportunity.
Anupriya Tuli: because what what I have read is that that is a celebration. After that people will go back and not talk about it, but that we can, you know and cash on.
Anupriya Tuli: So can you design some
Anupriya Tuli: kind of I don't know digital artifact, or maybe a kind of a toolkit which includes a digital aspect, or also material artifacts, and bring it all together to have kind of a conversation around it. I cannot be very specific, because I don't. I'm not super familiar with the nitty gritty of those festivities. But it would be very interesting to, you know. Explore that that could be one like just top of my head
Anupriya Tuli: thinking about it.
Indrani Medhi Thies: So, yeah, I mean, yeah, thank you for addressing my concerns. Which is that you know? I, there are different cultural variations across regions in India, where in many states, in the East and South, it is celebrate and thank you. For, you know, addressing that you'd really detail it out.
Indrani Medhi Thies: okay, so that so yeah, I was just curious. You, I think you've already kind of addressed that here. And how do you leverage those celebratory Pac practices to.
Indrani Medhi Thies: you know, just Ed, educate and increase awareness. So maybe just not even like
Indrani Medhi Thies: something digital, but just a workshop, maybe right at Ambubachimila.
Anupriya Tuli: the right? So something that is not high tech, something that's low tech, maybe a workshop. So yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: So II just share one of my field experience, and that was what I've realized, what Covid did. So I'm also mentally educated. I mentioned as I mentioned, and I was working with the Ngo. So we were tasked with the
Anupriya Tuli: with this job of educate. We were working with the government school and we were supposed to take these classes because of covid. Now, they were happening online. And we were working in government in schools where people are from low socioeconomic background. They've just recently purchased smartphones to support their kids, because that was the need of that.
Anupriya Tuli: So these, given the social economic background, it was more every time when we were having those sessions.
Anupriya Tuli: It was predominantly a single room with 3 generations are sitting, and the kids are sitting with one loudspeaker attending this
Anupriya Tuli: whole medical health education workshop, and the kind of feedback which I have re I have got after those sessions are like, you know. My grandfather enjoyed it.
Anupriya Tuli: My grandmother appreciated it. so Covid did bring that window like what we were trying to do, going round and round in circle it just
Anupriya Tuli: fast forward to it. Just a video call a mandatory session which you have to attend. You have constrained of space. There is whole family sitting in one room, because that's what it is, and everybody is sitting and listening to it.
Anupriya Tuli: So that is, that was quite interesting for me.
Anupriya Tuli: So that could be also one session. Yeah.
Indrani Medhi Thies: sounds good. Thank you.
Anupriya Tuli: Rob?
Rob Comber: Thank you. And just to to also reiterate. Thank you so much for the the work, the chance to read it. I've I've followed it
Rob Comber: as it's been coming out, but great to see it collected together, and a great presentation today. So thank you so much for for your work.
Rob Comber: II have loads of questions, and I look forward to having longer discussions with you on it. and but but one that sort of stood out to me was you. You talked about a balanced advocacy.
Rob Comber: and I wonder how you sort of position that within this ecological perspective. And I'm
Rob Comber: I'm kind of thinking across a number of different
theoretical perspectives of intersectionality, of amplification theory, and so on.
Rob Comber: That that suggests when you work within ecological
context, you you typically reinforce the power structures that are there.
Rob Comber: and a balanced advocacy
Rob Comber: maybe lifts some people up, but pushes those people that already have in power a little bit further up. and and I just wondered if you know you mentioned quite often that an activist perspective. And II can see that your work has achieved that.
Rob Comber: And I wonder why?
Rob Comber: Why not a more confrontational or adversarial advocacy?
Anupriya Tuli: I'll just take a minute to just recollect my thoughts on this.
Anupriya Tuli: I'll start.
Anupriya Tuli: Just let these no, no, what I want to talk about.
Anupriya Tuli: So to answer the confrontational advocacy, aspect
Anupriya Tuli: in my experience, we, as a society.
Anupriya Tuli: are not yet there.
Anupriya Tuli: It will take some more time, because the risk of
Anupriya Tuli: pushing these people away forever is higher. And I'm coming from my experience, from field work.
Anupriya Tuli: So in my first study back in 2,017. I had sessions with parents, both mother and Pado. and they were instances when I said, You know, this is who I am, and this is the work I want to do, and I want to have a conversation about menstruation. The father would just stand up and leave the room.
Anupriya Tuli: and when I used to explain them explicitly, no, no, I want to hear your perspective also, and the each of reaction would be.
Anupriya Tuli: why do you want to hear my perspective. I have nothing to do with it
Anupriya Tuli: that was confrontational for them.
Anupriya Tuli: Not everyone was comfortable to sit there. The people who managed to to sit there.
Anupriya Tuli: What kind of little bit? Okay towards the end, like, I obviously didn't follow up to see like how that changed their family dynamics. But what I could sense
Anupriya Tuli: bit of dense comfort
Anupriya Tuli: and feeling out of space in many of such interactions.
Anupriya Tuli: Yes, we can take that approach. But I'm I'm also concerned of the fact that it might do more harm like at at this time. I'm not saying that that is out of
Anupriya Tuli: the out of the list of options, but not yet, or maybe
Anupriya Tuli: scaffolding it
Anupriya Tuli: with other aspects, like maybe
Anupriya Tuli: workshops where that forms just one tiny bit, see aspect of it with other things which offer them safety, net, or comfort. Kind of a thing.
Rob Comber: So thank you very. I think it's a very thoughtful approach and a thoughtful response, and I think you could. I would
Rob Comber: advocate for an approach that brings harm or or violence to to people. I think my
Rob Comber: my thoughts on that are sort of informed by 2 2 things. One is the
the Irish context that I come from is that although I'm in a
Rob Comber: feminist Utopia now, Ireland, where I come from a very, very conservative place that has up until
Rob Comber: 3 or 4 years ago, that one of the most restrictive reproductive rights in the world. It is not a progressive, wonderful, rainbow-filled country that it seems like.
and actually one of the things that happened is
Rob Comber: people ran out of patience for balanced balance that balanced advocacy
Rob Comber: and created an online
Rob Comber: movement that literally involved tweezing the Prime Minister.
When they were having their period so so took
Rob Comber: all of the taboo and all of the intimate discourses, and put it into the public sphere directed at the more or less the head of the state.
and and really
Rob Comber: just lost all of the we're not going all of the balance. It was gone. It was. It was
Rob Comber: in his face, in a very kind of very provocative way.
Rob Comber: and that led to change because it. What I we've tried to write a little bit about this, and what we've found is, there's a concept called the intimate public from Lauren, Berlant
and Berlant is talking about
Rob Comber: women's magazines in the Us. Right? A totally different context than in menstrual taboo in Ireland or in
Rob Comber: in India.
Rob Comber: But one of the really important parts about it is that when there becomes this
Rob Comber: kind of virtualized
Rob Comber: again, women's magazines, not the Internet, not men's repeated something else, but a virtualized
Rob Comber: hurried space for identification.
Rob Comber: that politics and political movements get directed towards those spaces rather than to the
Rob Comber: big P. Political spaces of governments of
constitution building, and so on.
Rob Comber: and and a
Rob Comber: what we found with the social movement is by by stepping outside of that and kind of breaking the taboo it. It forced
Rob Comber: the the big P. Politics to pay attention to this small P. Politics.
Rob Comber: and my concern would be the potential for those intimate publics to become
Rob Comber: Ghettoized. I know that's something that theres Almeida talked about in her work. and I wonder maybe in that, in that kind of sense. to what extent do we create safe spaces that still stay hidden
Rob Comber: and don't change the infrastructural issues that need to be changed
Anupriya Tuli: if I have understood correctly, specifically what you just said towards the end. So it's that that we can empower
Anupriya Tuli: menstruators without
Anupriya Tuli: challenging the bigger structures of injustice, if if I have understood, is is that's what you're talking about. Right?
Rob Comber: I it's one part of it, I think. What can happen is that we keep
Rob Comber: private things private, and there is no necessity for the society or culture to change
Anupriya Tuli: that that
Anupriya Tuli: that can work like that can work, and
Anupriya Tuli: in a way, is already, if my II may say it's working in terms of mental tracking in my context. But
Anupriya Tuli: again, II understand what you are now saying, that that I look at it from a social justice perspective, an activist perspective. But
Anupriya Tuli: and that's why I'm motivated to have this conversation openly and break the taboo and stick man. That's why how I approach it. But
Anupriya Tuli: if we not do that, then I,
Anupriya Tuli: as a researcher like I as individual. I think I'm not comfortable with that. I'll be very honest. I am not comfortable with that, because it's high time that we need to
Anupriya Tuli: go full out and have conversations about it, because there are a lot of other issues around intimate health and well being in India or women's health, even if we don't talk about menstruation or not normalize talking about it, then we'll never reach to a place there, and just just connecting back to what you said before asking these questions about how people tweeted about menstruation to Prime Minister, and it became
Anupriya Tuli: a big thing. Funnyly, we had a similar conversation in again the
Anupriya Tuli: Though
Anupriya Tuli: Stakeholder Alliance Meeting, which I just recently attended like couple of weeks ago.
Anupriya Tuli: and there was stakeholders working across different. Oh, I'm working on different aspects of administration. They were ministry folks, unicef folks and a lot of, and we were doing some affinity mapping. And part of them actually said, you know the easiest way of letting of.
Anupriya Tuli: let's say, destigmatizing this
Anupriya Tuli: thing around menstruation would be asked our honourable Prime Minister to give a speech about menstruation on independence, then it will it. It might just help.
Anupriya Tuli: But in doing that, what is happening, it is coming from power topped out one board amount.
Anupriya Tuli: So I think that we need both of them. There are a lot of efforts which are being done from class would sign up.
Anupriya Tuli: But there's a lot of disparity on the efforts which are coming from top to bottom.
Anupriya Tuli: and I see valuing what you have said.
Anupriya Tuli: but personally I am not yet in a position to marry them.
Anupriya Tuli: That's my stance on them at the moment might change, but at the moment I'm not.
Rob Comber: Thank you very much.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): Right. I think I'll go next.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): before I start. I just wanted to congratulate you on a lovely thesis. I think I really enjoyed reading it. I think it's a work that seems to have come from your heart, and you seem very passionate about it, and I think it's a real it's a real joy when that comes across. And it it really did. And I'm I'm sure it's an emotional moment for you seeing it all come together with your father in the room, and you know I had a tear at the side of my eye and everything. So you know, just like very feel good for all of us, I think.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, I'll go back to to the matter at hand, just to ask you a couple of questions.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): to legitimize the process but they they come more from a place of curiosity than criticism. So
Aneesha Singh (she/her):  II just want to follow up actually on on on some of the the conversation you were just having with Rob, which I was very interested in. And I'm wondering, like you talk about this person leaving the room. When you brought up the topic of mainstuation, and I'm wondering whether
Aneesha Singh (she/her): you know. Be, be, think about users right from the start when we talk about projects in Hci, right? If you think about it from that user's perspective, do you think maybe starting with a topic like
Aneesha Singh (she/her): menstruation in the context of like, maybe his family which felt really close and personal, and you know he had to face all of a sudden.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): possibly may not be the right starting point for the change that you want to see.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): Because there's so many connected ecologies like it's connected to the body. It's connected to an intimate
Aneesha Singh (she/her): part of the body, and they're all of these
Aneesha Singh (she/her): messed up thoughts in the head around, you know, upbringings and and the language around things. You know, when we talk about these kind of body parts, they generally to abuse somebody, or
Aneesha Singh (she/her): you know there's all of this going on, and then, all of a sudden, you have to face it in with respect to your daughter.
Anupriya Tuli: and it's it's it's a different world.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): So do you think, changing that perspective could help with some of that change and advocacy that you are talking about
Aneesha Singh (she/her): in terms of addressing the user here, who is different from a woman
Anupriya Tuli: gone through this, whose whose body it is, who deals with it on a daily basis.
Anupriya Tuli: As I said, it's it's this is from I'm I'm taking a moment to collect all my thoughts.
Anupriya Tuli: And and you're talking about like with respect of like engaging not to just trying to understand if I have understood the example correctly like in the big thing. But you're talking about like it's not focus on menstruation, but some other aspect of health, and then delve into it. Right? That's what you oh, it could be health, it could be anything could be. So I'm talking about taking a more holistic
Aneesha Singh (she/her): perspective rather than use. And I'm not saying that that is the answer. I'm wondering because you had a question on your slide after the first study, which was, Who should
Aneesha Singh (she/her): design in power, and how much, II wonder when you have a question like, who should design empower?
Aneesha Singh (she/her): But the user is slightly different from the users you've been investigating. And you said, one of the things I think you said that would struck me was that even if you don't, if you can't engage the men.
Anupriya Tuli: you still should slot with the women. And I wonder whether that's always going to be low hanging fruit then, because you're always going to, you know. Sort of say, let's design for the women, because we're not getting the man. And I
Aneesha Singh (she/her): I'm asking you to think about whether taking it from a different perspective in this context might be more helpful.
Anupriya Tuli:  yes. I think
Anupriya Tuli: rather. But okay. So I'm thinking.
Anupriya Tuli: if we don't just talk, if if we if we focus on something which interests both
Anupriya Tuli: both the biological genders.
Anupriya Tuli: Then I think, having bringing them together would be less of a challenge, and then maybe we can dwell out and stand out on other topics. And one such avenue
Anupriya Tuli: is actually reproductive health and well being
Anupriya Tuli: so we recently that so the last work which recently we published in Kite 2023, looked at a male fertility. And how males in our study context construct their differences around sexual health and well being. And one of the takeaway was that, you know at the moment there is no spaces where we have such conversation, and the focus is all always around women's health and well being. But
Anupriya Tuli: if we just shift this lens on focusing individually at both of them, rather bringing it collectively and talking about intimate health and well being.
Anupriya Tuli: For, let's say, heterosexual relationships.
Anupriya Tuli: non-heterosexual relationship. And I think that would be more interesting.
Anupriya Tuli: so that might cater to adults who are sexually half active. But that might or might not
Anupriya Tuli: be a good point of engagement for a dollar sense, we might need to have a different approach for them. Puberty could be one. And people actually usually do. And what you are saying is actually within the context of reproductive health and well being. Actually, menstruation is the first topic where where the at grassroots practitioners start the conversation about.
Anupriya Tuli: they use it as a starting point to reach to a point where they can talk about contraception and family planning and whatever. But this is interesting thought, thought like, Thank you for asking this question, because I could see that.
Anupriya Tuli: Think that. Okay, menstruation can be for sexual health and welling. But what can it be for menstrual health?
Aneesha Singh (she/her): Yes, I just think I think the I think the provocation here is in terms of like even designing the studies for the for the user.
Anupriya Tuli: There's it's it's it. And II think for generations it might be different, right for for some
Aneesha Singh (she/her): more palatable in certain forms for other, and also who you're surrounded by. So sometimes to a larger audience in a room where somebody is talking sort of like your one spec in the room. But when you're like 3 people, and you have to look embarrassed, I think it's a different. It's a different. It begins. Yeah. One thing which can be from methodological perspective, what we have been following and what I have learned from what the practitioners have been doing
Anupriya Tuli: is that they don't just start their sessions by talking about penetration. They take good like if it's a 3 day workshop they dedicate to one day, or maybe one and a half day, to make them feel comfortable. And I'm talking about a heteronomous group here. I'm not talking about only menstrators. And they meticulously design those engaging activities like they would be body mapping
Anupriya Tuli: activities like, there's a cut out of what you figure. Okay, now you just label the organs so they'll definitely not label genitalias. And then the portion, like, Okay, which organs are not labeled, what what it is. And then there will be little bit of humor or discomfort. So they they try to approach in a different manner. And
Anupriya Tuli: and what I have realized, you know, that is also reflected in my data, like in in in one of the challenges which I faced in collecting data, is that I always had a a, a very.
Anupriya Tuli: let's say, small window with my participants, given their comfort and other logistic issues. So by the time I have observed, like, it is always towards the end, when I'm talking with opposite sex, that this become one person comfortable in having conversation.
Anupriya Tuli: So this trust building in itself is a very big activity for conducting sessions on such intimate topic, and people dedicate good like half 50% of their time in doing that, because once the trust is bill only then you can build on that and maybe come back after some time, and you know or resume it from that. So it's a very important component. And II recognize the value of that
Anupriya Tuli: down here in idealistic scenario. collecting data on this subject more or less, I feel I
Anupriya Tuli: it would take 3 3 days, but from a logistic perspective, our participants willing to give that time. So that's where practitioners come. We can piggyback on them right? They are conducting workshop. We can go there and
Anupriya Tuli: work our ways at all.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): Yeah, no, it's very interesting. I also, I mean, like your thesis is full of contributions, either little mini nuggets in a lot of places. But I want to ask like a question at a high level, and you have
Aneesha Singh (she/her): 3 studies which which which talk about quite different things. so, in your opinion, in like sort of looking back on your thesis, which study do you think has the most impact.
Anupriya Tuli: Oh, when you will say impact, like in impact, I would III let you decide what you consider impact.
Anupriya Tuli: I feel that okay, there are multiple. I view, look at it at multiple levels. Right?
Anupriya Tuli: So
Anupriya Tuli: the first level is, I feel that it was impactful for my participants. Whomsoever I have conversation over these years. I it was an impact, because whether they liked it disliked it were uncomfortable. They might have gone back, thought about it, looked up about it.
Anupriya Tuli: pondered about it. I think my task as activist was done to making them think about it. Whatever I ask them.
Anupriya Tuli: So it has impacted my participants. Yes. study which has impacted me or is close to my heart is is
Anupriya Tuli: is the third study because I really enjoyed doing that. It's about the mobilities
Anupriya Tuli: specifically the data collection aspect of it.
Anupriya Tuli: because I could see people constructing their safe spaces, something they have never thought about, or they take it for granted, but when they were asked to reflect on that they had so much to share, and the way I engaged with them
Anupriya Tuli: was really helpful, because I have had similar questions in my previous studies, but they were they were not that insightful because they were just talking about it. Now I ask them to do it, you know, get into it and just do it. So personally, it did impact me. And it also
Anupriya Tuli: oh, it was cathartic, because II also share similar experiences. I have been through in these situations that what that way.
Anupriya Tuli: and if you said that which study has a potential to leave a bigger impact on the lives of menstruators. I think it would be my fourth study, which is around menstrual tracking.
Anupriya Tuli: because no matter if you know about menstruation, you don't know about menstruation at least once in your lifetime. If you're a menstruator, you are going to track.
Anupriya Tuli: So that is from a researcher perspective is a site for intervention. Now, how best you make out of it is a question
Aneesha Singh (she/her): great? Thank you.
Anupriya Tuli: So yeah, if there are no other questions, then I will ask. No, you go ahead.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay. So my question was is, you know, listening to you present? And then also hearing the questions.
Anupriya Tuli:  when you talk about taking an ecological view, or you talk about ecologies. The general view is that we need to not think about this narrow context, but expand it somehow.
Anupriya Tuli: right? And so we, we need to not be
Anupriya Tuli: taking an an arrow view, we need to be taking a broader view, and who the stick is? Another word that that you've used. So
Anupriya Tuli: where does one stop? Right? How do you decide that this much is enough?
Anupriya Tuli: And and how do you justify that like I feel that we've we've made this argument in in all of our papers. Especially the the Tokai, you know the people right on on women's wellbeing. But,
Anupriya Tuli: I don't know that we've actually defined the scope of what this is the ecological perspective. This is where the ecological view ends or organ, because you can look in terms of time. You can look in terms of place like cultural context. You can look in terms of the political context or the cultural context. So so how do you decide that? Okay, this, this is a good ecological view to take.
Anupriya Tuli: I think that depends on the objective and the situatedness of the culture and time. And why? I say this is because it is very important, because
Anupriya Tuli: situate situatedness of culture and time. Wide matters is when we started this research, I struggled to get hold of participants for face to face conversations, but by the time towards the end, like over the years. I have observed that we, as a society, are in a phase of transition now, people are
Anupriya Tuli: not where they were 8 years ago, when you talk about menstruation, we have.
Anupriya Tuli:  influences talking about it, we have better sanitary napkin advertisements. We have better awareness. So now what
Anupriya Tuli: the very first step. To even approach
Anupriya Tuli: this
Anupriya Tuli: space would have meant different, and if I would have talked about ecology then versus now, the PE stakeholders in our common in, in, in, in my context, are relatively
Anupriya Tuli: at a better level of, let's say.
Anupriya Tuli: understanding
Anupriya Tuli: the importance of this topic. So now we can grow like, if if if you can visualize, we're just growing right. So the definition of ecology also changes, we can start with the focus on, let's say what is happening in family settings. And we can just focus on that that we want to talk about like when we talk about ecology, from family setting and school setting, and that's it. But now there are initiators which are happening.
Anupriya Tuli: People are engaging. So now the our reach, the definition of a reach, will also expand right because we have to tackle at different scale. Now.
Anupriya Tuli: what I'm trying to say that we have fixed this one small point. Now let's go and look at a bigger area. Let's start increasing the diameter. But the issue is starting. I don't think the issue isn't growing. It's like scoping it down from where to begin with.
Anupriya Tuli: because that is the most challenging part.
Anupriya Tuli: and then you you you include people right in the conversations. Now the point is like.
Anupriya Tuli:  who is taking that decision
Anupriya Tuli: to include whom? That depends upon the objective of the research itself.
Anupriya Tuli: I,
Anupriya Tuli: yeah, that's how I that's how I visualize it. Basically.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay. Rob, you have your hand raised.
Rob Comber: Yeah, I'd love just to follow on kind of set of questions on that, because to me
Rob Comber: I think an ecological perspective as as you both have been discussing. It is both that that kind of helps us think about context and scale.
Rob Comber: But to me is almost, it's more important from a feminist ecological perspective to be
relation of.
Rob Comber: and to actually start from that position of
Rob Comber: designing for the relations that Menstrade, or if if that is your target user that they have. So I think I see that example of the the dad who walks out of the room is a great way of saying.
Rob Comber: let's if we want to design from his perspective, what are are the relations that are important to him to design? And and some of those are things like culture and national identity, and so on. But maybe some of those that are more important are family.
Rob Comber: And and then you design from those
Rob Comber: that you map out relations rather than mapping out maybe context or or something else. So I wonder, maybe just kind of flipping that on its head and saying.
Rob Comber: You know, when you think about some of these other works, the the safe spaces that you have nicely mapped out in front of us?
Rob Comber: Does that change what it means to think about a safe space from rather than it just being this, this physical space to actually be a configuration or a set of
Rob Comber: material and social relations.
Rob Comber: Could you could you talk, maybe, about what that might mean? For for the kind of approach to design in this space.
Anupriya Tuli: Actually, we did. We did observe that the physical space in this particular state study the meaning of that space changed with.
Anupriya Tuli: for example, time, the day of time of the day. In the morning it might be a safe space, but that by night it might not be, and similarly, if there are
Anupriya Tuli: meal companions who magistrator is comfortable with. Then it is still a safe space versus male companion
Anupriya Tuli: who are strangers, or who they know, are not empathetic towards them. So II completely a a, actually you, you have used the very correct term that it is relational. Yeah, that is also a way to look at it, and that makes more sense.
Anupriya Tuli: and and I connecting back to that now reflecting on it, that when I, when I talk about this particular takeaway
Anupriya Tuli:  here designing for the self.
Anupriya Tuli: I was actually motivated to come up with this.
Anupriya Tuli: because this relativity, or how it is relative to one to oneself that oneself can decide
Anupriya Tuli: right? So let's empower them to take that decision.
Anupriya Tuli: So that's where I see your point. I completely understand it is relative, it cannot be
Anupriya Tuli: from our individual perspective, from from a personal perspective, it may be relative. I was coming from a more top-down approach of like
Anupriya Tuli: if we talk about ecology, how it would be, but at at local or personal level it will be related. I will. I like I as Cis women.
Anupriya Tuli: I'm okay to have conversations with my father.
Anupriya Tuli: but I'll be very honest. I'm not okay to have the conversations about menstruation with my aunt, my father's sister.
Anupriya Tuli: but and that has a history behind that.
Anupriya Tuli: And it is me who is going to decide whether my intervention, whatever it is, involves her or not ideally it should. But whether I want to involve her or not.
Anupriya Tuli: that should be my decision right? And that's where this relativeness comes.
Anupriya Tuli: I think. Yeah.
Rob Comber: I think, yeah, II think it's, you know, I think it's not that they mean can mean the same thing that the kind of ecological and relational. And then I think it
Rob Comber: sometimes when we start to think of ecology, we start to think of like
Rob Comber: a stakeholder map that you know, maps absolutely everyone. And and you end up with these big network graphs. And then they become
Rob Comber:  sort of flat. The meaning of the actual connections that we have to specific people or specific spaces.
Rob Comber: And and instead, an ecological or feminist ecological perspectives tunes us into the importance of how we actually relate to specific people in in specific contexts.
And I think some of the other
Rob Comber: data that you have
Rob Comber: doing the education in a in a mixed classroom, and and and boys are giggling and and giggling makes other people shy.
Rob Comber: And there's a really strong kind of description of how these different relations produce different forms of education.
Rob Comber: and I thought that was a very powerful. That's how I read ecological kind of throughout it. So it's it's, you know. I've seen many, many of examples in it. So I think it's maybe just that different word from, I think, Neha, how you took it, which is this
Rob Comber: growing kind of context scale that we also use ecology, for it's nice to see both of them kind of beside each other in this in this way, but I think maybe if it is something to.
Rob Comber: Yeah, just to reflect on the difference between those 2 things as well.
Cause I think it's really strong, actually, across the work that the the both are present.
Anupriya Tuli: So I lost another one.
Anupriya Tuli: I think you mentioned that there were constraints you had as you were doing your data collection right? So
Anupriya Tuli: in the last minute of an interview, you, you said that you were able to kind of build trust, but then you you had limited time you couldn't do more. Also we know that around the time of the pandemic you had constraints. Yes, so if you could have your way. And all these other factors were not in the mix right, and people who are willing to give you all of their time.
Anupriya Tuli: And there was no pandemic. And so you you had access.
Anupriya Tuli: How would you like? What? What is the study that you would design? I would have a period test like inspired from that
Anupriya Tuli:  hackathon best from hackathon thing. I would have a 3 day fest and specifically like for the this tracking. Yeah, for this tracking. So we did for the last study. We did narrative interviews, but actually, my additional idea was to create a red room
Anupriya Tuli: where I would
Anupriya Tuli: ask participants to walk in and just
Anupriya Tuli: put them in a state of shock, and also give different artifacts which are culturally relevant or symbolic of menstruation, and see how they respond, and then kind of have that music museum experience and have conversation around it, and then talk about menstruation tracking.
Anupriya Tuli: So that's how I visualized it, and, to be really honest, I was very disappointed that we had to do it. In pandemic because I have been visualizing about it for over one year, right? Because we were planning these 2 studies like this one and the previous one together. But that's what it is, because
Anupriya Tuli: that's the fun doing field work on such a topic, because it's just not about collecting data. It's also about how you can maybe like inject that one thought
Anupriya Tuli: when you're interacting with the participants, because I feel the methods when you're working on a taboo topic which is which is of so pertinent importance. You are, you have an opportunity to
Anupriya Tuli: leave an impression on somebody's life. Now, whether they take it and how they take it is a second thing. But you do have because you are coming from that perspective. So I think that I that was a missed opportunity for me from from a activist person who wants to contribute back to grassroots level.
Anupriya Tuli: Yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: thank you. Any other questions, any follow-up questions.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): if I may. What was the research question for your red room?
Anupriya Tuli: It was again just trying to understand how comfortable they feel about the concept of menstruation and about their bodies, because I was planning to
Anupriya Tuli: bring in and put different sizes of menstrual cups so menstrual cups as now like. So we collected data on the study back in 2,019.
Anupriya Tuli: At that time they were not that prevalent or spoken about.
Anupriya Tuli: and and it comes from my own experience, like not my own, but collective experience of couple of
Anupriya Tuli: my lab mate. So when I so I ordered Menstrual Cup because I was planning for this red room, and I didn't check that. It has sizes.
Anupriya Tuli: So by chance I got a large one, and I was thinking.
Anupriya Tuli: Is this how it is supposed to be? And then it led me to think about my own body.
Anupriya Tuli: I have been working on this topic for over years, and still I'm not comfortable thinking about inserting menstrual cup in my body. So that speaks a lot right? So I wanted to see how other people would have talked about talk or responded to it, and that might have made them think about their bodies. And then from there I was planning to, you know. Talk about tracking. And what does that it mean for them? And stuff like that?
Aneesha Singh (she/her): It's interesting, because I think there are. There are different ways of doing this right. It's like, almost when you say that.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): And it's it's it's a great metaphor, but there's almost another. So another body of research and thought that says that you could almost overthink that
Aneesha Singh (she/her): like if you had to use it in the moment. You know you have no choice, you you're on the road. There's a place that sells mainstream jobs, probably just do
Aneesha Singh (she/her): and then there is. There is this thing of, you know being faced with one, and then somebody tells you, what do you think about it?
Aneesha Singh (she/her): And then you you kind of have to
Aneesha Singh (she/her): think about it. And so what I'm trying to say is, do you think that being faced with it in that kind of what you would
Aneesha Singh (she/her): perhaps call a non ecological situation. Would you just perhaps make people over think it like? It's not about their impression of
Aneesha Singh (she/her): you don't have to answer.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): but I'm just wondering from what you know, like, it's it's one of those things where it's an interesting thought exercise to see.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): II don't know. Like when you face somebody with something that they have to do with respect to their bodies. One thing is, yes, they can immediately be faced with something that they realize they're not that comfortable with. And there is that thought. But beyond that, thought is is a line of thinking which can almost in some cases lead to.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): You know you paralyze yourself with thinking, God.
Anupriya Tuli: yeah.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): So. So. Yeah, so I would. I would I would.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): if if the the reason I bring this up is. This is some of the work I did with people with chronic pain and physiotherapists, and they would start, the physios would say, If you tell people to move.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): and we tell them you are going to do XY. And Z. They would all never do it, because they're like, I'm never gonna be. But the moment you start doing it they start doing it with you, and they've already done it before they thought about it. And all of a sudden it's done, and it's a very different context. And I get that think about.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): you know these because I like studies that shock people a little bit. But then I always feel like, do you take them round down path that they may not have gone down otherwise?
Anupriya Tuli: Don't have to answer it. It's probably food for thought, yeah, it is. It is so. The couple of
Anupriya Tuli: think, because I'm thinking, like. yes, then this could not be just the only one methods of the study, because, again, like you mentioned that it could spiral, that we are asking them to overthink, but that could be used
Anupriya Tuli:  plus some other methods to neutralize it, and to better understand right? From the ethics perspective. Yes, you will have to be little bit careful.
Anupriya Tuli: Also, I understand that. So
Anupriya Tuli: you know, designing that. So that was again, this red room thingy was just visualization, like lot of thoughts, and I was just collecting tiny bits. But even to execute that.
Anupriya Tuli: I it is needed to, you know. Try and
Anupriya Tuli: pilot tested
Anupriya Tuli: with people you know what comfortable with their bodies. Look out for people who are comfortable with their bodies, and see how they respond, and then not
Anupriya Tuli: maybe have a better understanding of how it might go and go spirited out or not, or how you can better deal with it.
Anupriya Tuli: But again, it would have been interesting. When I also in.
Anupriya Tuli: I see what you are saying.
Anupriya Tuli: They could also be social experiments around that. But maybe we can just analyze this from social experiments and combine them with, because because nowadays a lot of influencers on Instagram. You keep on doing different kind of social experiments and capture people's response. So it would be interesting. I'm just thinking my thoughts. I think it would be very interesting. I think you about another very interesting, and I think a naturalistic approach almost.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): is getting 2 people in the room and talking about it, especially if they appear as a friend. is like.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): you know, that's some of like some of us. But again, it's it's, you know. You think about what your research question really is and what perspective you're trying to get there.
Aneesha Singh (she/her): but I think it would be an interesting study. I'm I'm sad you didn't get to do it.
Anupriya Tuli: I can do it sometime. I can definitely do it him.
Anupriya Tuli: Any other questions. And, Danny, any questions
Indrani Medhi Thies: actually, yeah, I'm thinking of. That example you gave. You know where I mean. This conversation with Anisha reminded me.
Indrani Medhi Thies: Where you talked about people are uncomfortable with even line drawings in the workshop.
Indrani Medhi Thies: so like. What kind of
Indrani Medhi Thies: W. Approaches were you thinking, you know, with respect to having an embodied approach
Indrani Medhi Thies: to people being comfortable?
Anupriya Tuli: I think
Anupriya Tuli: I will heavily draw on work being done in Midland balance lab. because they're using lot of sensors.
Anupriya Tuli: body shipping sensors like they have some cushions and stuff
Anupriya Tuli: we like. I don't. And then then there are sensations in your body, and then you realize, and different movements happening in your body. There, there was this specific work.
Anupriya Tuli: By Mary Louis Juol. But I if if I'm not pronouncing their name wrong, in akbet, was one, and then there was also one
Anupriya Tuli: where they have engaged with the dollars and menstruators. To
Anupriya Tuli: to collect data using these different artifacts, they have collected
Anupriya Tuli: so that to enable them to to focus more on their bodily experiences and not just think about it in in non embodied way, or just read about it. And the
Anupriya Tuli: data presented in that paper did highlight that actually, the participants really enjoyed it. And it was not penetrative.
Anupriya Tuli: That's that's what like bring the Indian perspective here, like embody perspective, doesn't always mean that you have to talk about menstrual cups, or it. The point is
Anupriya Tuli: shifting focus from the screen or the book to your body
Anupriya Tuli: like, in a way my participants are doing that. So they rely on their bodily queues for tracking right? They're using the technology just to validate it.
Anupriya Tuli: but they do it under certain pressure. How can we just normalize it? Doing it in on daily basis? PE shifting the focus, just not relying just on technology or work or other things to to tell them that this is what's gonna happen?
Anupriya Tuli: Can I relate to my body, or can I better understand when I am ovulating versus when I am, in which phase of my mental cycle that yo your body does give you cues. It's about how sensitive you are to that. So how can we
Anupriya Tuli: nurture that in in in non
Anupriya Tuli: penetrative way, given our cultural context, and from for doing that, we can draw on this fabulous workin's lab has been doing
Indrani Medhi Thies: sounds good. Yeah, thank you.
Anupriya Tuli: Any other questions.
Anupriya Tuli: So then, do we ask you to leave the room. Yeah, I need to use the restroom. Sorry.
Anupriya Tuli: I hope you don't. Let's turn off the recordings.
Anupriya Tuli: Okay, yeah.
Anupriya Tuli: Yeah. Okay.
Anupriya Tuli: have you recording?
Anupriya Tuli: Let me stop the and.